Add sensible defaults for using build containers (#78)
OctopusDeploy/Architecture: SensibleDefaults/BuildInContainers.md

# Summary

We heavily recommend all build and test workloads are run within containers. This document will cover several patterns that can be used, and some context around why they are the recommended patterns. For detail on how to choose what pattern works best for you, refer to the [flowchart and guides](https://octopushq.atlassian.net/l/c/A1XMKTso).

# Why Build and Test in Containers?

TODO: add more detail here

- Understand and own your own dependencies

- Isolate your environment from other teams
  - Dependency changes
  - Inter-build pollution

# Patterns

> ## No Container :raised_eyebrow:

Reviewer: We can move this down the list to de-emphasize :) sure thing.

> ## No Container :raised_eyebrow:

Author: I actually put it at the top on purpose, as it is the 'status quo' approach, and I think for an audience that isn't already using a container, it might be helpful to show the limited circumstances we think that's appropriate before moving on to the others.

However, if that's not the preferred ordering here, I'm not going to insist it stays where it is.

This is only a reasonable choice if the build commands are _so_ simple they are guaranteed to be available on _any_ base agent environment. The contents of the base agent environment is subject to change over time, and even tools like `curl` aren't guaranteed to stay available. Strongly consider using a container, even if it's something like `busybox` (which offers a lot of tools in a very small payload)

## \[Recommended\] Public Container :earth_asia:

> If possible, use a publically-available container that already has your dependencies. This avoids the need for you to build and maintain your own.

Reviewer 2: Strongly recommend some guidance to use a container from reputable source here.
(I recall I've probably already mentioned this, but I still feel strongly about it :smile:)

### Examples
- `mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:<version>` for .NET SDKs

## Custom Agent Environment :hammer:

> If your build _cannot_ be run in a container you'll need to define or select a specific agent type that already has what you need. _More on this to be written..._

Reviewer 2: I think more needs to be written here :)

Reviewer 2: > select a specific agent type that already has what you need

As we're aiming for to deprecate as many of these as possible, it's probably wise to mention that and suggest that if at all possible, we should aim to rearchitect so we can run in a container (albeit with the caveat that we need to test things that are old). (I'm thinking of the "we need windows to run the code signing" / "nah, just use a different tool" conversation that was had)

### Examples
- The Windows Server / SQL Server agents available in TeamCity

## `tool-docker-cli` as the environment

> If your build needs to talk to a Docker daemon itself, but has no other dependencies (or can handle bootstrapping itself), use this container.

Reviewer 2: Given it's likely we'll need to stop running privileged containers, should we mention that here?
(I think I might be conflating the "run child containers" and "run sibling container" situations)

`docker.packages.octopushq.com/octopusdeploy/tool-containers/tool-docker-cli:latest`

### Examples
- Nuke builds that require access to Docker will generally work in this container.

## Defined build environment in a Dockerfile

Specify your build environment in its own Dockerfile in your repo, and build it as part of your build pipelines. There are two approaches here - either you build it on every build you run, or you build it infrequently and treat it as another versioned dependency.

### Build container built inline with CI application build 

Suits best if the build container is small (we don't want our teams to be waiting a long time for their build container to be built before their application has even started building) and to make specific atomic changes to the build environment and build process and application being built.

> This pattern does not cache the build environment anywhere outside the build agent running your overall build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This pattern does not cache the build environment anywhere outside the build agent running the build.
```

We do not recommend using this pattern if you are anticipating that the container build will take a long time versus pulling the container (e.g. if you are compiling something from source in the container build). Use the next pattern if your container build is slow.

### Build container built seperately to application build

> Suits best if the build process is slow, or your team doesn't want to take on the cognitive load of having a completely ephemeral build container as part of your build process.

Reviewer 3: In both of these documents
- https://octopushq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RND/pages/2388623576/Define+the+build+environment+as+a+Dockerfile+build+it+in+your+build+config+as+the+first+step
- https://octopushq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RND/pages/2388231045/Stand+up+a+new+build+pipeline+to+build+your+Dockerfile+push+it+into+the+private+registry

You mention using these approaches if your team can handle the cognitive load of these approaches. Implying that there is a different kind of cognitive load to take on for each of them. Consider adding more details here, or using different language rather than "cognitive load" to describe the tradeoff, to make it clearer to people about the tradeoff they might be making.

For example
- Containers built separately to the application build incur additional complexity in the build pipeline, as there needs to be more build configurations, the container needs to be built and updated regularly.
- Containers built inline with the CI application build need to tag images in a certain way to ensure uniqueness, which could potentially cause confusion during local dev

Or whatever the actual tradeoff is :)

Reviewer: Thanks for the feedback! The "cognitive load" we were implying here was a bit on the extra build configurations but also on the cognitive load of developing an image/Dockerfile that would need to be maintained and developed appropriately (i.e. not be 30GB large). We can clear that up to delineate these two scenarios.

Reviewer: @TomPeters have updated those two confluence pages. Hopefully they read a bit better on the difference between the complexity between those two scenarios.

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth adding the "cognitive load" reasoning to this document (as it's trying to explain the why)  as well.

This pattern adds more complexity to your overall build pipeline landscape, as you'll need to seperately build and push the container to our private registry (`docker.packages.octopushq.com`) and then pull it in for each build where you need it.

# Antipatterns

## (Nuke-specific) Wrap everything in a `DockerTasks.DockerRun`

We tried this for TentacleArmy, that used a nuke build script to run its application build and noticed that you lose _all_ of the advantages of of nuke's fluent API wrapping of the `dotnet` (and others) commands. The environment also had to ensure that docker cli was runnable which meant you were unable to use official Microsoft-provided .NET SDK containers to run. If you are running into this build antipattern consider instead using `tool-docker-cli` and using a single build step. 

## Use a Docker container as a way to cache packaged application dependencies

If you're considering putting `dotnet restore` in a custom build container to speed up compilation, please don't. Here's why:

> - If your custom container doesn't get rebuilt/re-pushed/re-pulled, then any security fixes in third-party dependencies will not be included in your actual build. This can be very tricky to debug, depending on the package ecosystem and how they handle cache resolution

Reviewer 3: From my understanding, the effect of the dotnet restore is to build up .net's package cache. The actual build still does a `dotnet restore`, ensure that it gets updated dependencies (i.e. there shouldn't be any security issues), but because of the pre-populated package cache, most of the requests to download packages hit the cache instead of going to nuget.org, or feedz, or wherever.

Author: Many builds use `--no-restore`, according to my 'anecdata' here. It's a pattern I've seen in at least one build, anyway. However, thinking about the example given here, I think it's a bit contrived, and am inclined to remove it.

Reviewer 3: > Many (compilation) builds use --no-restore

Really!? Can you share any with me so I can have a look?

Author: https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/OctopusDeploy/blob/d5c3fa4f2ff21629ba3dc605eac9c64017de99ee/nuke-build/Publish/AssemblyPublisher.cs#L45

Author: Although the git blame on that one is... 😬 😉

Reviewer 3: Without following the chain too deeply... The build configuration in teamcity still does a restore right? By virtue of whatever target calls that function depending on a different target that does a restore. So as long as the restore still happens as part of the build configuration, then happy days. Just asking to make sure I'm not missing anything :)

Author: 🤦 You're right. I'm misremembering a chain of events. The possibility is still there, but perhaps I'm conflating a bunch of disparate things I've been associated with.

> - The time spent pushing/pulling/expanding/copying very large container layers isn't materially faster than the time pulling direct from external package sources, _even accounting for occasional unavailability_.

Reviewer 3: Do we have any data on this? I believe we currently use this approach based on some data that andrew h gathered in the past, so if we have data that contradicts that, then that would be interesting to explore further :)

>   - If you are finding external packages sources are unreliable, please let #team-engineering-productivity know and we can see about enabling caching within our build cluster for your use case

Reviewer 3: I would emphasise this point.

Speeding up package restoration for all projects would eliminate toil across teams, and a bunch of extra work that teams might need to otherwise do to create pre-populated container images, and would also provide a better service (since all packages would get cached, rather than just the ones captured the last time the container image was built)

> > We acknowledge that `build-base-dotnet` currently includes a large NuGet and npm package cache, and it is our analysis of our customer's use of that container that leads us to recommend against using this pattern in general. We explicitly do not recommend using this container for any new projects.

Reviewer 3: I'd leave out this bit - it feels a bit confrontational ("This customer is doing it bad - don't be like that customer").

```suggestion
> We acknowledge that `build-base-dotnet` currently includes a large NuGet and npm package cache. We aim to remove this container as a base container for our teamcity agents, and we explicitly do not recommend using this container for any new projects.
```
